feat(header): initial design guidance (#17)
vmware-clarity/clarity-guidance: 1013-header-design-guidance.md

---
category: component design guidance
state: draft
created: 2024-10-21
updated: 2024-10-21
---

> # Header Component

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Header Component Design Guidance
```

A page [Header](https://clarity.design/documentation/header) component defines the top of a page. Provides a consistent place for branding, navigation, search, and access to global application actions like settings and notifications.

## Guidance

> - **Must** use one header per page and **must** be at the start of the page.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Design teams **must** use one header per page, and it must be positioned at the start of the page to provide a consistent layout and enhance user navigation.
```

> - **Must not** use at the top of a smaller container like a popup or dialog.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Design teams **must not** use a header at the top of smaller containers, such as popups or dialogs, to avoid confusion and maintain a clear distinction between page-level and contextual navigation.
```

> - **Must not** overload with too many items. Use maximum of four items in top-level navigation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Design teams **must not** overload the header with too many items; a maximum of four items should be used in the top-level navigation to ensure clarity and ease of use for users.
```

- **Should** use [search](https://clarity.design/documentation/header#search) feature based on search's prominence and its utility within the application.
- **Should** use right-side action area of header for global actions and top-level navigational items that are important, yet visited less frequently.

## Content Guidelines

> - **Must not** use vague headings. Use short and concise heading for navigation items.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Design teams **must not** use headings that do not clearly convey their meaning or purpose. Instead, they should ensure that all headings are short and concise, providing users with clear context for navigation.
```

> - **Should** pair icons with text when the provided text gives additional context specific to the user. For example, the user's name.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Design teams **should** pair icons with text when the text adds relevant context for the user, such as the user's name, to enhance clarity and understanding.
```
